.\"     $Id$ -*- nroff -*-
.\" EN: $Id$
.TH CLIMM 1 climm
.SH NAME
.B climm
\- a small, text mode ICQ client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B climm
.I [\-h]
.I [\-c]
.I [\-b <basedir>]
.I [\-i <locale>]
.I [\-v[level]]
.I [\-l <logplace>]
.I [\-u <UIN>]
.I [\-p <passwd>]
.I [\-s <status>]
.I [\-C <commands>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B climm
is a text based ICQ client supporting many of the ICQ features provided by
the client by Mirabilis. climm allows to change the user password, create
new accounts, updating user info, search other users, send SMS, open direct
connections, send acknowledged messages, transfer files, detect other user's
client, send UTF-8 encoded messages, execute arbitrary commands upon any
event, etc.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-h|\-\-help
Display a short help text and exit.
.TP
.BI \-c|\-\-nocolor
Disable the use of color.
.TP
.BI \-b|\-\-basedir \ <basedir>
Specify
.I basedir
as the base directory where climm will look for its files, in particular
its climmrc file.
.TP
.BI \-i|\-\-i18n \ <locale>
Use the locale
.I locale
instead of the one derived from environment variables.
.TP
.BI \-v|\-\-verbose [level]
Set verbose mode, or set verbosity to
.IR level .
.TP
.BI \-l|\-\-logplace \ <file>|<dir>
Use
.I file
as file to write log into, or use
.I dir
as a directory to create per user log files in.
.TP
.BI \-u|\-\-uin \ <uin>
Login with
.I uin
only. Maybe repeated.
.TP
.BI \-p|\-\-passwd \ <passwd>
Login with
.I passwd
as password. Maybe repeated for each
.I \-u
switch, or single.
.TP
.BI \-s|\-\-status \ <status>
Login with
.I status
as status, which may be given numerically or
.BR inv ,
.BR dnd ,
.BR occ ,
.BR na ,
.BR away ,
.BR ffc ,
or
.BR off[line] .
.TP
.BI \-C|\-\-cmd \ <commands>
Execute climm commands
.I cmds
after login instead of the default
.I eg
command.
.SH USAGE
Upon first start (for the given base directory), climm will ask for a UIN,
or create a new one. After the first login, the server based contact list
will be imported automatically.
.br
Basic commands include
.I msg
to message other contacts (try pressing the <tab> key several times
on an empty input line to bring up msg commands to message contacts
recently talked to),
.I add
to add new contacts,
.IR update ,\  other ,\ and\  about
to change your meta data on the ICQ server, and, of course,
.I help
for online help. A complete list of commands is available in the
.BR climmcmds (7)
man page.
.SH FEATURES
.B climm
is very portable and runs on Linux, DOS, OS/2, Win32, BeOS, AmigaOS, GNU HURD and any
other modern unix system.  
.B climm version 0.5
is known to run on Linux, AIX, HPUX, Tru64, AmigaOS, partially BeOS and other unices.
However, the other ports
may or may not still work and anyone wishing to test them is welcome to.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
16 Aug 1998
Matthew D. Smith releases climm unto the world. 
Followed by 12 dated releases until 25 Sept 1998.
.TP
05 Jan 2001
Matthew D. Smith died in a car accident.
Users pick up where Matthew left off, formalize climm under the BSD 
license and restart the development of
.BR climm .
.TP
10 June 2002
Version 0.4.9 is released under the GPL licence, finally
implementing the new version 8 of the ICQ protocol, done
by R\(:udiger Kuhlmann.
.SH MAILING-LIST
The climm mailing list is
.IR climm\-list@climm.org .
Information about subscribing and archives is available at
.IR http://www.climm.org/pipermail/climm\-list/ .
.SH DOWNLOAD
Via HTTP from
.IR http://www.climm.org/download .
.br
To get the newest version from CVS, enter:
.br
cvs \-d:pserver:anonymous@climm.org:/var/lib/cvs co climm
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR climmrc (5),
.BR climmcmds (7)
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.climmrc
Old configuration file for climm \- obsolete.
.TP
.I ~/.climm/
The default base directory where climm looks for its files.
.TP
.I BASE/climmrc
Configuration file for climm. Contains global configuration.
.TP
.I BASE/status
Configuration file for climm. Contains contacts list and
contact options.
.TP
.I BASE/i18n/*.i18n
Local overrides for climm's translation files.
.TP
.I ~/.climm/i18n/*.i18n
Local overrides for climm's translation files.
.TP
.I BASE/contacts/
Directory where meta data for contacts is stored.
.TP
.I BASE/history/
Default directory for log files.
.TP
.I BASE/files/
Directory where incoming file transfers are saved.
.TP
.I BASE/remote-control
Old default location of the FIFO used for scripting. Renamed as it confused lusers.
.TP
.I BASE/scripting
Default location of the FIFO used for scripting.
.TP
.I PREFIX/share/climm/*.i18n
Internationalization files containing translations of all strings
climm outputs.
.SH BUGS
Send bug reports or comments to R\(:udiger Kuhlmann
.I <climm@ruediger\-kuhlmann.de>
(in German or English).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was derived by James Morrison
.I <ja2morrison@student.math.uwaterloo.ca>
from the minimal man page written by Jordi Mallach
.I <jordi@sindominio.net>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system and later kept up-to-date by
.IR <climm@ruediger\-kuhlmann.de> .
