.\"     $Id$ -*- nroff -*-
.\" EN: $Id$
.TH MICQ 1 mICQ
.SH NAME
.B mICQ
\- a small, text mode ICQ client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B micq
.I [\-h]
.I [\-c]
.I [\-i <locale>]
.I [\-b <basedir>]
.I [\-f <configfile>]
.I [\-v[level]]
.I [\-l <logplace>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mICQ
is a text based ICQ client supporting many of the ICQ features provided by
the client by Mirabillis. mICQ allows to change the user password, create
new accounts, updating user info, search other users, send SMS, open direct
connections, send acknowledged messages, transfer files, detect other user's
client, send UTF-8 encoded messages, execute arbitrarely commands upon any
event, etc.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-h|\-\-help
Display a short help text and exit.
.TP
.BI \-c|\-\-nocolor
Disable the use of color.
.TP
.BI \-i|\-\-i18n \ <locale>
Use the locale
.I locale
instead of the one derived from environment variables.
.TP
.BI \-b|\-\-basedir \ <basedir>
Specify
.I basedir
as the base directory where mICQ will look for its files, in particular
its micqrc file.
.TP
.BI \-f|\-\-config \ <configfile>
Specify
.I configfile
as the configuration file to use.
.TP
.BI \-v|\-\-verbose [level]
Set verbose mode, or set verbosity to
.IR level .
.TP
.BI \-l|\-\-logplace \ file|dir
Use
.I file
as file to write log into, or use
.I dir
as a directory to create per user log files in.
.SH FEATURES
.B mICQ
is very portable and runs on Linux, DOS, OS/2, Win32, BeOS, AmigaOS, GNU HURD and any
other modern unix system.  
.B mICQ version 0.4.10
is known to run on Linux, AIX, HPUX, Tru64, AmigaOS, partially BeOS and other unices.
However, the other ports
may or may not still work and anyone wishing to test them is welcome to.
.SH HISTORY
.TP
16 Aug 1998
Matthew D. Smith releases micq unto the world. 
Followed by 12 dated releases until 25 Sept 1998.
.TP
05 Jan 2001
Matthew D. Smith died in a car accident.
Users pick up where Matthew left off, formalize mICQ under the BSD 
license and restart the development of
.BR mICQ .
.TP
10 June 2002
Version 0.4.9 is released under the GPL licence, finally
implementing the new version 8 of the ICQ protocol, done
by R\(:udiger Kuhlmann.
.SH MAILING-LIST
The mICQ mailing list is
.IR micq\-list@micq.org .
Information about subscribing and archives is available at
.IR http://www.micq.org/pipermail/micq\-list/ .
.SH DOWNLOAD
Via HTTP from
.IR http://www.micq.org/download .
.br
To get the newest version from CVS, enter:
.br
cvs \-d:pserver:anonymous@micq.org:/var/lib/cvs co micq
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR micqrc (5),
.BR micq (7)
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.micqrc
Old configuration file for mICQ \- obsolete.
.TP
.I ~/.micq/
The default base directory where mICQ looks for its files.
.TP
.I BASE/micqrc
Configuration file for mICQ.
.TP
.I BASE/i18n/*.i18n
Local overrides for mICQ's translation files.
.TP
.I BASE/history/
Default directory for log files.
.TP
.I BASE/files/
Directory where incoming file transfers are saved.
.TP
.I PREFIX/share/micq/*.i18n
Internationalization files containing translations of all strings
mICQ outputs.
.SH BUGS
Send bug reports or comments to R\(:udiger Kuhlmann
.I <micq@ruediger\-kuhlmann.de>
(in German or English).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was derived by James Morrison
.I <ja2morrison@student.math.uwaterloo.ca>
from the minimal man page written by Jordi Mallach
.I <jordi@sindominio.net>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system.
